# RFS 1 Packet Format

Packet and frame diagrams in this document use a custom format. The purpose of this format is to summarize, not define, protocol elements. Prose defines the complete semantics and details of structures.

Complex fields are named and then followed by a list of fields surrounded by a pair of matching braces. Each field in this list is separated by commas.

Individual fields include length information, plus indications about fixed value, optionality, or repetitions. Individual fields use the following notational conventions, with all lengths in bits:

- **x (A):** Indicates that x is A bits long
- **x (A):** ndicates that x is A bits long
- **x (i):** dicates that x holds an integer value using the variable-length encoding described in Section 16
- **x (A..B):** Indicates that x can be any length from A to B; A can be omitted to indicate a minimum of zero bits, and B can be omitted to indicate no set upper limit; values in this format always end on a byte boundary
- **x (L) = C:** Indicates that x has a fixed value of C; the length of x is described by L, which can use any of the length forms above
- **x (L) = C..D:** Indicates that x has a value in the range from C to D, inclusive, with the length described by L, as above
- **[x (L)]:** Indicates that x is optional and has a length of L
- **x (L) ...:** Indicates that x is repeated zero or more times and that each instance has a length of L

This document uses network byte order (that is, big endian) values. Fields are placed starting from the high-order bits of each byte.

By convention, individual fields reference a complex field by using the name of the complex field.

provides an example:

```
Example Structure {
  One-bit Field (1),
  7-bit Field with Fixed Value (7) = 61,
  Field with Variable-Length Integer (i),
  Arbitrary-Length Field (..),
  Variable-Length Field (8..24),
  Field With Minimum Length (16..),
  Field With Maximum Length (..128),
  [Optional Field (64)],
  Repeated Field (8) ...,
}
```

# Variable-Length Integer Encoding

Variable-Length encoding for non-negative integer values. 

This encoding ensures that smaller integer values need fewer bytes to encode.

The QUIC variable-length integer encoding reserves the two most significant bits of the first byte to encode the base-2 logarithm of the integer encoding length in bytes. The integer value is encoded on the remaining bits, in network byte order.

This means that integers are encoded on 1, 2, 4, or 8 bytes and can encode 6-, 14-, 30-, or 62-bit values, respectively. Table summarizes the encoding properties.

| 2MSB | Length | Usable Bits | Range |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 00 | 1 | 6 | 0-63 |
| 01 | 2 | 14 | 0-16383 |
| 10 | 4 | 30 | 0-1073741823 |
| 11 | 8 | 62 | 0-4611686018427387903 |
